Update contributing guide with gradle commands (#18945)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-lang: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to Ballerina

> Ballerina is a cloud native programming language and runtime, including a message broker and API gateway, which makes it easy to create resilient services that integrate and orchestrate transactions across distributed endpoints. 

Reviewer: I think this "cloud native programming language" needs to be updated with the new messaging as well. Check and see

Reviewer: And we don't have an API gateway which ships with Ballerina itself AFAIK

Reviewer 2: We don't have a message broker too now

Reviewer 2: Shall we use "Ballerina is an open source programming language and platform for cloud-era application programmers to easily write software that just works" ? This is the new description used in https://stagedev.ballerina.io/

> NOTE: Set an environment variable `JAVA_HOME` to the path name of the directory into which you installed the JDK release.

**Prerequisite 2** - Node (v8.9.x or latest LTS release) + npm (v5.6.0 or later)

**Prerequisite 3** - Docker 

#### Building from the source

Clone this repository using the following command.

```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/ballerinalang/ballerina
```

If you download the sources, you need to update the git submodules using the following command.

```
git submodule update --init 
```

Run the gradle command `./gradlew clean build` from the Ballerina root directory:

Extract the Ballerina distribution created at `distribution/zip/ballerina/target/ballerina-<version>-SNAPSHOT.zip`. The `zip/ballerina` directory contains the runtime only. `zip/ballerina-tools/` contains the runtime and tools (e.g., Ballerina Composer).

### Setting up your development environment

#### Setup IntelliJ IDEA

##### Importing a Ballerina Project

Import the Ballerina project to IntelliJ IDEA similar to any other gradle project. 

* Navigate to `File | Open` menu.
* Browse the filesystem and Select Ballerina Project's root directory.

> * In "Import Project from Maven" Wizard, set followings.

Reviewer: Maven?

>    * If prompted to import gradle project select `Auto import`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * If prompted to import Gradle project select `Auto import`.
```

   * Set Project SDK as Java 1.8

##### Useful IDEA Plugins

* ANTLR 4 - https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/7358-antlr-v4-grammar-plugin 
* Ballerina - https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9520-ballerina (Need IDEA 2016.3 or newer)

#### Setup Eclipse

##### Importing a Ballerina Project

> All Ballerina repositories are developed as maven or gradle projects. So you can import any Ballerina project to Eclipse similar to any maven or gradle project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All Ballerina repositories are developed as Maven or Gradle projects. So you can import any Ballerina project to Eclipse similar to any maven or gradle project. 
```

* Navigate to **File** → **Import..**
* Select **Existing Maven Projects** under **Maven**
* Next, browse the file system, and open the Maven module.

##### Installing ANTLR4 plugin
If you are working with the grammar, it would be useful to have ANTLR 4 IDE plugin installed for Eclipse. To install this using Eclipse marketplace:

1. Navigate to **Help** → **Eclipse Marketplace**

2. Search for **antlr4**

3. Install ANTLR 4 IDE plugin (which supports antlr 4.x version).

To open the plugin views: 

1. Navigate to **Window** → **Show View** → **Other**. 

2. Under **ANTLR4** section, select and enable **Parse Tree** view and **Syntax Diagram** views.

> ### Working With Ballerina Grammar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Working With the Ballerina Grammar
```

> Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR4. It is recommended to have some basic understanding on anltr4 grammar syntax and concepts, before working with the Ballerina grammar. “Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference” is a good reference to get started with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ballerina grammar has been implemented using ANTLR 4. It is recommended to have some basic understanding on ANTLR 4 grammar syntax and concepts, before working with the Ballerina grammar. “Parr, Terence (January 15, 2013), The Definitive ANTLR 4 Reference” is a good reference to get started with.
```

> Ballerina grammar can be found under docs/grammar in the Ballerina repository. It consists of two files:

Reviewer: The grammar is at `<BALLERINA_REPO_ROOT>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar`

Reviewer 2: Shall we link github url here?

* BallerinaLexer.g4 - Contains the lexer rules for Ballerina grammar. Lexer is responsible for tokenizing an input Ballerina source code.
* BallerinaParser.g4 - Contains the parser rules. Parser listens to the token stream generated by the lexer. High level grammar productions/abstractions are defined in the parser using those tokens.

> > TIP: If you want to check and validate a grammar rule you just wrote, you can use the antlr4 plugin of your IDE. See Setting up your development environment section for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> TIP: If you want to check and validate a grammar rule you just wrote, you can use the ANTLR 4 plugin of your IDE. See Setting up your development environment section for more details.
```

#### Generating Parsers

> Once a change is done to the any of the grammar files, it is needed to re-generate the parsers. To generate parsers, we first need to download `antlr-complete-4.5.3.jar` file. Then navigate to `<ballerina>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar/`, and generate the lexer followed by the parser (order is important) using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a change is done to any of the grammar files, the lexer and the parser need to be re-generated. To generate the lexer and the parser, first download the `antlr-complete-4.5.3.jar` file. Then navigate to `<ballerina>/compiler/ballerina-lang/src/main/resources/grammar/`, and execute the following command:
```
Removed that bit about generating the lexer before parser because when we run the command as mentioned, we don't have to worry about an order.

```
java -jar <path-to-antlr-jar>/antlr-4.5.3-complete.jar *.g4 -package org.wso2.ballerinalang.compiler.parser.antlr4 -o ../../java/org/wso2/ballerinalang/compiler/parser/antlr4/
```

The above command will autogenerate some Java classes. Out of the autogenerated classes, `BallerinaParserBaseListener.java` in particular is important, as the Ballerina AST builder is written on top of it. Thus, if any new rules are added to the BallerinaParser.g4, above command will generate new methods in the `BallerinaParserBaseListener.java`, and you need to override those newly added methods inside `BLangParserListener.java` accordingly.

### Ballerina Compiler 
https://medium.com/@sameera.jayasoma/ballerina-compiler-design-3406acc2476c

### Ballerina VM

> https://medium.com/@sameera.jayasoma/ballerina-runtime-evolution-f82305e4ab8e

Reviewer: Shall we remove this since this is no longer applicable to the current runtime?
